According to Forrester Research, an estimated 200,000 American jobs are lost annually due to offshore outsourcing.
While in the past it was predominantly blue-collar jobs and low-level white-collar jobs that were relocated, the data show even mid- to high-level white-collar jobs are now being outsourced.
During Bush/Obama's presidential campaign, he maintained outsourcing is a part of globalization, which will be good for the American people in the long run.
High unemployment rates led to growing public condemnation of outsourcing and demand for new regulations to stop or limit outsourcing.
In response, corporations increased lobbying efforts to defend their ability to outsource jobs overseas, which they argued is necessary in order to remain competitive with international firms.
Ultimately, President Bush/Obama rejected the proposal to implement trade protection policies that would discourage outsourcing.
The President dismissed the proposal mainly because of intense pressure from corporations.
The President dismissed the proposal mainly because of his unwillingness to stand up to corporate special interests.
One cause of educational inequality is the average $5,000 income gap between teachers at low-income schools compared to those at high-income schools.
As a result, poorer schools generally attract far fewer qualified teacher applicants.
A federal grant program was established to entice teachers to work at low-income schools by providing grants of $4,000 annually to college students who pledged to teach at least four academic years at such schools upon graduation.
Recipients of the grant who failed to meet the service commitment were required to repay the grant in full.
While there was some evidence that the grant program was achieving its goals, a growing number of politicians criticized the cost of the program, which they argued was an especially heavy burden during such difficult economic times.
Following discussions with the Republican and Democratic Congressional leaders, President Bush/Obama announced the elimination of the program.
The President's decision was mostly prompted by political pressure to cut non-essential federal spending during the budget crisis.
The President's decision was mostly prompted by his initiative to cutting non-essential federal spending during the budget crisis.
The high death toll of individuals with disabilities from the latest devastating hurricane revealed substantial deficiencies in the emergency preparedness services provided to those with disabilities.
The investigation regarding this matter uncovered problems in providing critical information about warnings and evacuation routes to those who are blind or deaf, and those who have intellectual disabilities.
In addition, accessible transportation for people with disabilities was found to be virtually non-existent.
Local authorities of the town hardest hit by the tornado reported that disabled residents who lived alone and did not have family or friends nearby were especially vulnerable.
The results of the investigation fueled the already strong public outcry over the level of federal aid given to emergency preparedness programs.
President Bush/Obama announced today that consistent with his beliefs on equal access, he would seek increased funding to support the state and federal emergency planning efforts, particularly those aimed at assisting individuals with disabilities.
The President's decision to increase federal aid to emergency preparedness programs was primarily driven by the public uproar.
The President's decision to increase federal aid to emergency preparedness programs was primarily driven by his resolve to help people with disabilities.
A news program recently featured the results of a study which uncovered the hardships faced by veterans when trying to obtain healthcare and disability compensation.
The wait list for receiving medical and mental health services from the Veterans Health Administration is extensive with only one-third of veterans who are eligible for care actually receiving treatment.
In addition, the study found the Veterans Benefit Administration took on average over 6 months to process a veteran's disability claim and almost 2 years to process an appeal to a denied claim.
In the meantime, the suicide and homelessness rates for veterans are twice that of other Americans.
The broadcast of the program resulted in public condemnation of the White House.
At a press conference today, President Bush/Obama vowed to create a more streamlined program by the end of the year to meet the health needs of veterans.
The President's pledge to enhance the services provided to veterans was largely motivated by public criticism.
The President's pledge to enhance the services provided to veterans was largely motivated by his desire to increase his support among swing-state voters in an election year.
President Bush/Obama's introduction of a new airport restriction that bans all liquids, except for those prescribed for medical purposes, from being stored in carry-on luggage was met with great resistance.
One controversial aspect of the measure was the large database containing patient and prescription information checked by security personnel in order to authorize the medicinal liquid.
Critics were concerned about patient confidentiality and feared the possibility of the database being hacked.
A sharp reversal of public opinion occurred after yesterday's failed bioterrorism attempt.
A man attempted to board a flight to New York City carrying what he claimed to be a prescribed asthma inhaler that in fact contained aerosolized Ebola virus.
Authorities became suspicious after checking the medical database and found that his prescription was written by a doctor who had long been monitored by CIA.
Experts report that releasing the Ebola virus in a densely populated area such as NYC would have had catastrophic results.
The President's prevention of the bioterrorist attack was mostly due to good luck.
The President's prevention of the bioterrorist attack was mostly due to his security measure.
